---
title: Blog Upgrade in 2023
categories: Daily
date: 2023-01-26 03:28:32
tags: ['hexo']
---

After... I can't even remember how many years, my blog has been upgraded again. The theme is still `Volantis`, which is simple to use but comes with many powerful features!

## Update Content

1. Upgraded `Volantis` to the latest stable version `5.7.7`.
2. Updated the "About" page according to the theme upgrade method, and now it can properly display links for two {% ruby friends|frenemies %}.
3. Enabled the comment plugin `utterances`, which allows users to leave messages after logging into their Github accounts!
4. Installed a plugin to enable internal article links.
5. Installed a plugin to change Bilibili video link format (from embedded player to card).
6. Installed a plugin to change Github Repo display format (card style).
7. Updated the "About Me" page, using various theme tags to slightly beautify it.
8. Added a pronunciation plugin similar to萌娘百科, just to have some fun and make myself happy~

## New Plugins Used

### 1. Utterances Comments

The `Volantis` theme provides 14 different comment systems. After configuring according to the [documentation](https://volantis.js.org/v6/theme-settings/#%E9%80%89%E6%8B%A9%E8%AF%84%E8%AE%BA%E7%B3%BB%E7%BB%9F) in `_config.volantis.yml`, it can be used.

Originally, I planned to use the localized version of `utterances` called `beaudar`, but encountered problems that I couldn't understand. So, I gave up.

When configuring for the first time, Github will prompt you to install the `utterances` Github App to use it. I don't know if I need to install it once as the owner or if each commenter needs to install it...

### 2. Bilibili Video Card

I have previously inserted some of my own videos into the blog, but the playback window is very restricted. Clicking a few times will still redirect to Bilibili. It's better to use links instead. Using `hexo-bilibili-card` makes the links look nicer and is easier to insert:

- Before:

```html
<iframe src="//player.bilibili.com/player.html?aid=91147423&cid=155618081&page=1" width="700" height="500" scrolling="no" border="0" frameborder="no" framespacing="0" allowfullscreen="true"> </iframe>
```

- Now:

```html
{% bilicard av91147423 %}
```

### 3. Github Repo Card

On the "About Me" page... I have very simply displayed a few of my not-so-impressive repos.... So, using the theme's built-in tags to achieve it:

```html
{% ghcard 'SilenWang/silenwang.github.io' %}
```

{% folding yellow:: Additional Plugin Installation %}
On the "About Me" page... I have very simply displayed a few of my not-so-impressive repos.... So, I found a plugin to make them look slightly better... The plugin name is `hexo-github-repo-tag`, and the usage method is:

```html
{% githubrepo 'SilenWang/silenwang.github.io' %}
```

When deploying, there was a small problem... This plugin uses the API to grab necessary information from the project page to generate corresponding cards. Therefore, when running `hexo g`, it needs to access Github... If the network is not good at that time, you can only try again multiple times...
{% endfolding %}
