---
title: Fate/Stay Night 2
date: 2016-07-22 18:50:07
categories: Daily
tags: [Playing games, Fate/Stay Night 2, Black History Plan]

---
I was sick with allergies... I stayed in bed for two and a half days without doing any important work, and finally got to play Fate/Stay Night 2 (PSP version)... playing games is really more motivating than anything else...

When I was in elementary school, I knew about this game. Back then, there were quite a few TV programs introducing video games, and you could buy various game guide magazines at the newspaper stand. I remember watching two TV shows and three magazines where they all gave very good reviews of this game...

However, since I wasn't an emulator player (back then it was impossible because it was too expensive...), I could only watch my hands itch... but thanks to technological progress, 14 years later I finally had the opportunity to play this game.

But maybe it's because expectations are higher that disappointment is greater... there are really many annoying things about this game...

Firstly, the art style... should I say the characters have become too fast? When I watched the opening animation back then, I thought it was quite good. But now when I look at it again, I feel uncomfortable with these character portraits... huge eyes... extremely thin bodies and limbs... especially the protagonist's clothes... they are really too... cough...

Then there is the character design... mainly for the protagonist... just like most people's feelings... it's a typical middle-aged punk kid... ah... I guess I can't face my past self after growing up = =|||

Next, the maps and some puzzles... especially the world map. Honestly, at first I thought the game did a pretty good job of guiding you, marking target locations on the mini-map. However, I found that except for the Langen Ruins which can be walked straight to, almost all other locations require you to go around! And from the mini-map, you simply cannot see how to get there!!! So every time I went to a new location, I had to run through all the places I could walk to in order to reach it. Then while running around, I had to kill countless monsters... for puzzles... some trigger points were really too obvious! That's why I had to run around and kill countless monsters before I figured out how to do it...

Finally, the battles... at first, I thought this battle system was quite interesting... but as the enemies got stronger, they became more annoying. The front row enemies are difficult to knock back, and the rear row elemental songs are too fast, so if you throw a superior elemental song, you might have to kneel for one or two turns... trying to use the controlled character to directly break through to the rear row, that person probably jumps in and can't get out... in the end, I could only avoid fighting against annoying combinations...

Overall, from the game system... personally, I feel like this is a game that's really tiring to play... the plot aspect because the protagonist is too middle-aged punk kid, repeated time travel with unreasonable logic, antagonist's IQ hard fault, and the forced happy ending at the end, etc., can't bring any points to this game. So for me, finishing this game can only be considered eliminating my residual resentment, and recommending it again or playing it once more is out of the question...
