---
title: Talse of Destiny 2
date: 2016-07-22 18:50:07
categories: Gaming
tags: [Talse of Destiny 2, Black History Plan]

---

I had a cold with allergies... I stayed home for two and a half days, not doing anything. I finally got to play Destiny 2 (PSP version)... As expected, playing games is more motivating than anything else for me...

I knew this game when I was in elementary school... Back then, there were still many TV programs introducing video games, and convenience stores also sold various game strategy magazines. I remember seeing it on at least two TV shows and three magazines, and they all had very good reviews of the game...

However, I'm not a console player (and couldn't have been back then, too expensive...), so for such a big game, I could only feel envious... But thanks to technological progress, 14 years later, I finally got the chance to play this game!

But maybe it's true that high expectations lead to disappointment... This game is really terrible in many aspects...

Firstly, the graphics... Should I say people are changing too fast? Back then when I watched the opening animation, I thought it was still quite good. But now, looking at it again, these character portraits look so uncomfortable... Huge eyes... Thin body and limbs... And especially the protagonist's clothes... It's really a bit...

Then there's the character setting... Mainly for the protagonist... Just like most people's feelings, he's a typical middle school boy with a big ego... Ah... Am I really grown up and can't face my past self? = =|||

Next is the map and some puzzles... Especially the world map. Honestly, at first, I thought the game's guidance was quite good, marking target locations on the mini-map. However, I found that apart from the Lang ruins where you can walk straight there, almost all other locations require detours to reach! And it's impossible to see how to get there from the mini-map! So every time I go to a new location, I have to run around everywhere to find my way, and during the detour process, I have to kill countless monsters... Some trigger points are really not obvious enough... This also leads to running around and killing countless monsters before realizing how to do it...

Finally, there's the battle... At first, when I played, I thought this battle system was quite interesting... But later, the enemies became more disgusting... The front-line enemies are difficult to knock down, and the back-line crystal chanting is incredibly fast. If you cast a higher-level crystal spell, at least two will fall... Trying to use a control character to directly go around and interrupt it, that person mostly jumps in and doesn't come back... In the end, I can only avoid disgusting combinations by not fighting them...

Overall... From a game system perspective... Personally, this is a very tiring game to play... Regarding the plot, due to the protagonist being too middle school boyish, repeatedly crossing time with various illogicalities, villains' IQ hard points, and finally forcing an unreasonable reunion at the end, it can't add anything to this game either... So for me, beating this game is just eliminating my residual desire. As for playing again or recommending it to others... Forget it...
