---
title: Introduction to Decorators
categories: Script
date: 2019-08-15 22:48:43
tags: ['Python', 'Decorators']
---

A long time ago, a Python expert from my previous company taught us about decorators. However, due to my愚钝ness, I never fully understood this concept and didn't use it in actual coding. Therefore, I'm recording this example that comes up at work.

Firstly, the role of a decorator in Python is to attach new functionality to an existing function without modifying its code. This requires defining a function that takes another function as an argument and returns a function.

This week, I encountered a problem where I wrote a function to calculate some metrics for UMI sequences in a `Bam` file. However, the `Bam` files have two types of UMIs:
- Double-end with N bp UMIs
- Single-end with N bp UMIs

The way to read UMIs from these files is different: single-end requires reading the full length of the UMI, while double-end only reads half the length. The original single-end code looks like this:

```python
def single_count(file, tag, mode):
    umi_count = {
        'R1': [],
    }
    infos = load_single(file)
    for info in infos:
        if info['strand'] == 'R1':
            umi_count['R1'].append(info['umi'])
    umi_count['R1'] = Counter(umi_count['R1'])
    total_umi = 0
    read_with_umi = 0
    max_grp_size = 0
    max_umi = ''
    size_stat = Counter([1, 5, 10, 100, 1000])
    for umi in umi_count['R1']:
        if umi_count['R1'][umi] > max_grp_size:
            max_grp_size = umi_count['R1'][umi]
            max_umi = umi
        for size in size_stat: # 注意初始化的时候, 全都是1, 不是0, 所以最后要处理(-1)
            if umi_count['R1'][umi] <= size:
                size_stat[size] += 1
        total_umi += 1
        read_with_umi += umi_count['R1'][umi]
    size_stat = OrderedDict(list([("%%Group_Size_below_%s(%s)" % (size, tag), str((size_stat[size] - 1) / total_umi )) \
        for size in size_stat])) # python所以要先list化
    return total_umi, read_with_umi, max_grp_size, max_umi, size_stat
```

The only difference between the double-end and single-end code is that `infos = load_single(file)` needs to be replaced with `infos = load_duplex(file)`. To achieve this, there is a straightforward way: add a parameter to the function and decide whether to call `load_duplex` or `load_single` based on the parameter. However, this would require modifying the function code as well as the code that calls this function. If there are many such places, it's easy to introduce new bugs. Therefore, I tried using decorators to solve this problem:

```python
def load_mod(func):
    load_single = load_duplex
    return func

@load_mod
def duplex_count(file, tag, mode):
    return single_count(file, tag, mode)
```

Here, I defined two functions: `duplex_count` aims to repeat all the steps in `single_count` except for `infos = load_single(file)`, and only change the function called to `load_duplex`. Therefore, you can see that this function's content is essentially returning the result of `single_count`.

However, this alone doesn't complete the replacement of the two load functions. That's where `load_mod` comes into play: it replaces the content in the local namespace with `load_duplex`. By decorating `duplex_count` with `load_mod`, it's equivalent to replacing the function call before executing it, so that the function executes differently.

Of course, I use it more like the 'closure' usage in common decorator tutorials rather than 'adding new functionality to a function'.

Other applications will be discussed later.
```